# BurpGPT

Web applications provide a unique attack surface due to the complexities in identifying vulnerabilities within them. Tools like our Tenable Vulnerability Management Web App Scanning product provide comprehensive and automated vulnerability scanning for modern web applications. However, as researchers we continue to explore new avenues for exploitation. This research helps us to increase the efficacy of our products. One of the most powerful tools we utilize in our web application research is Burp Suite. Burp provides a fantastic suite of features to aid in manual testing for web app security vulnerabilities. In our efforts to identify ways in which AI could benefit web application security, we looked at how we could integrate ChatGPT and Burp Suite to identify common web application vulnerabilities and recommend solutions to address them. 

We built BurpGPT as an extension for Burp Suite to allow researchers to utilize GPT for analysis of HTTP requests and responses. The tool works by leveraging Burp’s proxy feature to intercept HTTP traffic and prompts the OpenAI API to analyze the traffic to identify risks and potential fixes to any issues identified. This can be used to discover injection points, misconfigurations and more. As we developed this extension, we tested some real-world scenarios and we found that GPT3.5 and GPT4 successfully identified Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities and misconfigured HTTP headers without requiring any additional fine-tuning. These capabilities can have dramatic impacts on reducing manual testing and automating security testing for web application developers. In addition, it gives our researchers another tool in their arsenal to help identify novel new exploitation techniques that can be implemented into our WAS solution.

